README.md, before:

# Onauty
An OCaml library for determining whether provided graphs are isomorphic or not.  
In case they are, a map between vertices can also be calculated.
It uses nauty library as its backbone.

## Credits
This software uses *nauty and Traces* library (http://pallini.di.uniroma1.it/) licensed under the Apache License 2.0. A boilerplate declaration is available in *LICENSE-Nauty&Traces.txt* file. 
The full license is available at: https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

## Usage
### Creating a graph
To create a graph one should specify its vertices and adjacency matrix<sup>1</sup>.
```
open Onauty

let g = Graph.empty ()
    |> Graph.add_vertices 4 
    |> Graph.add_conns [(0,1);(1,2);(3,2)]
```
It is possible to create a graph all at once (as shown above) or partially.
```
open Onauty

let g = Graph.empty () ;;
Graph.add_vertex g |> Graph.add_vertex ;;
.
. (* doing some stuff*)
.
Graph.add_conn (0,1) g;;
```
<sup>1</sup> The order of connections is only important if a graph will be later considered as a digraph (directed graph).
### Checking for isomorphism
Having two graphs, we can check whether they are isomorphic to each other.
```
let g1 = Onauty.Graph.empty ()
    |> Onauty.Graph.add_vertices 4 
    |> Onauty.Graph.add_conns [(0,1);(1,2);(3,2)]
let g2 = Onauty.Graph.empty () 
    |> Onauty.Graph.add_vertices 4 
    |> Onauty.Graph.add_conns [(0,1);(2,1);(3,2)]
(* g1 and g2 will be considered as undirected graphs *)
let are_iso1 = Onauty.Iso.are_graphs_iso g1 g2    
(* g1 and g2 will be considered as directed graphs*)
let are_iso2 = Onauty.Iso.are_digraphs_iso g1 g2    
```
### Coloring vertices
It is also possible to partition a set of vertices into groups of colors.
```
(*this creates a graph with vertex 0 colored with first color, vertices 2 and 3 are colored with second color and vertex 1 is colored with third color *)
let g = Onauty.Graph.empty () 
    |> Onauty.Graph.add_vertices 4 
    |> Onauty.Graph.add_conns [(0,1);(2,1);(3,2)]
    |> Onauty.Graph.set_colors 
      (Common.StringMap.empty 
        |> Common.StringMap.add "C1" [0]
        |> Common.StringMap.add "C2" [2;3]
        |> Common.StringMap.add "C3" [1]
```
Please note that order of colors is important for determing the ismorphism.
For example:
```
open Onauty
let g1 = Graph.empty () 
    |> Graph.add_vertices 4 
    |> Graph.add_conns [(0,1);(2,1);(3,2)]
    |> Graph.set_colors 
      (Common.StringMap.empty 
        |> Common.StringMap.add "A" [0]
        |> Common.StringMap.add "B" [2;3]
        |> Common.StringMap.add "C" [1] 
      )
      
let g2 = Graph.empty () 
    |> Graph.add_vertices 4 
    |> Graph.add_conns [(0,1);(2,1);(3,2)]
    |> Graph.set_colors 
      (Common.StringMap.empty 
        |> Common.StringMap.add "C" [0]
        |> Common.StringMap.add "A" [2;3]
        |> Common.StringMap.add "B" [1]
      )
(*this result in false because colors (represented as strings "A", "B" and "C") are sorted alphbetically so the first graph has vertex 0 assigned to first color while the second graph has vertex 0 assigned to third color. Structurally graphs are identical but colors are different.  *)
let are_iso = Iso.are_graphs_iso ~check_colors:false g1 g2 ;;
```
### Mappig between graphs
TBD

Commit message:

Fixed and extended readme. Changed returned array so that when graphs are not isomorphic the returned array is empty.

README.md, after:

# Onauty
An OCaml library for determining whether provided graphs are isomorphic or not.  
In case they are, a map between vertices can also be calculated.
It uses nauty library as its backbone.

## Credits
This software uses *nauty and Traces* library (http://pallini.di.uniroma1.it/) licensed under the Apache License 2.0. A boilerplate declaration is available in *LICENSE-Nauty&Traces.txt* file. 
The full license is available at: https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

## Usage
### Creating a graph
To create a graph one should specify its vertices and adjacency matrix<sup>1</sup>.
```
open Onauty

let g = Graph.empty ()
    |> Graph.add_vertices 4 
    |> Graph.add_conns [(0,1);(1,2);(3,2)]
```
It is possible to create a graph all at once (as shown above) or partially.
```
open Onauty

let g = Graph.empty () ;;
Graph.add_vertex g |> Graph.add_vertex ;;
.
. (* doing some stuff*)
.
Graph.add_conn (0,1) g;;
```
<sup>1</sup> The order of connections is only important if a graph will be later considered as a digraph (directed graph).
### Checking for isomorphism
Having two graphs, we can check whether they are isomorphic to each other.
```
let g1 = Onauty.Graph.empty ()
    |> Onauty.Graph.add_vertices 4 
    |> Onauty.Graph.add_conns [(0,1);(1,2);(3,2)]
let g2 = Onauty.Graph.empty () 
    |> Onauty.Graph.add_vertices 4 
    |> Onauty.Graph.add_conns [(0,1);(2,1);(3,2)]
(* g1 and g2 will be considered as undirected graphs *)
let are_iso1 = Onauty.Iso.are_graphs_iso g1 g2    
(* g1 and g2 will be considered as directed graphs*)
let are_iso2 = Onauty.Iso.are_digraphs_iso g1 g2    
```
### Coloring vertices
It is also possible to partition a set of vertices into groups of colors.
```
(*this creates a graph with vertex 0 colored with first color, vertices 2 and 3 are colored with second color and vertex 1 is colored with third color *)
let g = Onauty.Graph.empty () 
    |> Onauty.Graph.add_vertices 4 
    |> Onauty.Graph.add_conns [(0,1);(2,1);(3,2)]
    |> Onauty.Graph.set_colors 
      (Common.StringMap.empty 
        |> Common.StringMap.add "C1" [0]
        |> Common.StringMap.add "C2" [2;3]
        |> Common.StringMap.add "C3" [1]
```
Please note that order of colors is important for determing the ismorphism.
For example:
```
open Onauty
let g1 = Graph.empty () 
    |> Graph.add_vertices 4 
    |> Graph.add_conns [(0,1);(2,1);(3,2)]
    |> Graph.set_colors 
      (Common.StringMap.empty 
        |> Common.StringMap.add "A" [0]
        |> Common.StringMap.add "B" [2;3]
        |> Common.StringMap.add "C" [1] 
      )
      
let g2 = Graph.empty () 
    |> Graph.add_vertices 4 
    |> Graph.add_conns [(0,1);(2,1);(3,2)]
    |> Graph.set_colors 
      (Common.StringMap.empty 
        |> Common.StringMap.add "C" [0]
        |> Common.StringMap.add "A" [2;3]
        |> Common.StringMap.add "B" [1]
      )
(*this results in false because colors (represented as strings "A", "B" and "C") are sorted alphbetically so the first graph has vertex 0 assigned to first color while the second graph has vertex 0 assigned to third color. Structurally graphs are identical but colors are different.  *)
let are_iso = Iso.are_graphs_iso ~check_colors:true g1 g2 ;;
```
### Mappig between graphs
Similarly as before, we can generate a mapping between isomorphic graphs (or digraphs).
For example:
```
let g1 = Graph.empty () 
    |> Graph.add_vertices 4 
    |> Graph.add_conns [(0,1);(2,1);(3,2)]
    |> Graph.set_colors 
      (Common.StringMap.empty 
        |> Common.StringMap.add "A" [0]
        |> Common.StringMap.add "B" [1]
        |> Common.StringMap.add "C" [2;3] 
      )   
	
let g2 = Graph.empty () 
	|> Graph.add_vertices 4 
	|> Graph.add_conns [(0,1);(2,1);(3,2)]
	|> Graph.set_colors 
	  (Common.StringMap.empty 
		|> Common.StringMap.add "A" [3]
		|> Common.StringMap.add "B" [2]
		|> Common.StringMap.add "C" [0;1]
	  )
let are_graphs_iso,mapping = Iso.graphs_iso_map ~check_colors:true g1 g2 (* this results in a tuple of the form: (true,[|(0,3);(1,2);(2,1);(3,0)|]) *)
let are_digraphs_iso,mapping = Iso.digraphs_iso_map ~check_colors:true g1 g2 (* this results in a tupel of the form: (false,[||]) *)
```
